After doing some reading from the PowerPoint given by the professor, I have managed to find some differences between an array and arraylist in Java. So, despite being similar by name they have their subtle differences, the first one I’ll go over is an array in java. In java an array is static by nature which means that the size of your array has already been set when you have your code compile. Another difference is that arrays have a fixed size as a result you must be specific with the number of elements, it can have when you make it. Once the array is created the size of what can be put in cannot change. Now while an array seems stricter in how it works it does have a better performance time as most of the elements needed are already in the memory allotted to it. Now on to ArrayList one of its differences is that it has a dynamic structure which allows it to change the number of elements that can be added or removed when adding adjustments. Next is the size of the arraylist which in this case is also a dynamic size this enables it to grow or shrink drastically as you don’t need to have to specify the size when making it. This shows that arraylist have more flexibility since it provides many methods for removing, adding, and looking for different elements. So overall one of the big conceptual differences between an Array and ArrayList is the size and the structure that they follow. When using arrays, you are working with a fixed size and structure, while working with an ArrayList has a dynamic size and structure. In the end when it comes down to choosing one to use it seems to be based on either personal preference or on what your current assignment may be calling for.
